# How-Do-You-Do-It: Analyzing AlphaFold predictions with ChimeraX

This repository contains scripts and tutorials prepared for the **How-do-you-do-it** series at the Vienna BioCenter on analyzing AlphaFold predictions using ChimeraX.

## Overview

- **Tutorial Folder:**  
  Contains an HTML file that provides a step-by-step tutorial on how to analyse of AlphaFold predictions with ChimeraX.

- **Python Folder:**  
  Contains a script to generate AlphaFold missense coloring commands for multi-chain PDBs or for UniProt IDs and can not be directly run in ChimeraX. 


## Quick Start

The fastest way to visualize your AlphaFold prediction is to download the analysis scripts from [here](https://github.com/mvorlander/HDYDI_ChimeraX/tree/main/ChimeraX_AF_scripts) and follow the instructions in the README files for installation. **The installation is straightforward!**

The scripts will:
- Load the five predictions from an AlphaFold run.
- Associate the JSON file to each prediction.
- Identify interface residues and write them to files.
- Generate a slider to easily browse through and compare the different predictions.

Separate scripts (with identical functionality) are available to support the file formats generated by:
- The **AlphaFold 3 web server**
- The results of an **AlphaFold 2 screen** as implemented by Dominik Handler (analyzes one hit at a time)
- The `auto-alphafold.sh` script by Juraj Ahel

Matthias Vorländer, January 2025, VBC  
matthias.vorlaender@imp.ac.at
A big thanks to the ChimeraX team for answering my many questions!!
